# Requirements

With Portal, we attempt to create a new fundamental base layer for computer and internet usage. On top of that, applications should be built that cover everything people want to do. It is worthwhile to make a list of those things and evaluate whether or not Portal can in fact replace the current practice.

* Communicate: this covers email, messaging, chat, and audio and video calls. It can be one-to-one, many-to-many or one-to-many. Participants usually need a kind of identity like a phone number, email address, chat handle. Often, the kind of identity is specific to the channel - you cannot call someone on their email address. This implies the opportunity to unify identity.
* Consume: the internet is full of things that can just be consumed without interaction. This is basically the concept of the internet pre-Web 2.0. Think of static websites or streaming services. Although consumption of user-created content also fits if the creators and consumers are not the same demographic, e.g. YouTube, Wikipedia.
* Present oneself: people have profiles on many different platforms like Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram, etc. so there is clearly a need to present oneself to others, to build an online identity. These profiles should be always online for others to see. They should allow others to initiate contact. And for different contexts, different profiles for the same person should exist, e.g. for business and private purposes.
* Work/Create: Computers have always been tools for creation, whether it is writing, drawing, animating, etc. and a tool to assist with work, e.g. with financial statements, taxes, programming, designing. Some of these use-cases require a powerful machine with lots of expensive hardware or lots of storage space, others do not. Often, work is very collaborative and blends together with the communication requirement.
* Gaming: humans want to have fun and gaming has been a major use-case of computers since their very beginning. Today, a vast range of games exist, some very quick and casual, others deep and with huge time requirements. The demands on the hardware to run them are equally varied. Many games have a social component and so people often have a game-specific avatar and identity.
